the fragile mental state of Donald Trump
was on display today in London
especially when he described Adam Schiff
in a way that too many sounded like a
reasonably accurate description of
Donald Trump I think Jeff is a deranged
human being and maybe grew up with a
complex or lots of reasons that are
obvious I think he's a very sick man
cheering our discussion now dr. Lance
build us a former assistant clinical
professor of psychiatry at Harvard
Medical School dr. notice is a
contributor to the best-selling book the
dangerous case of Donald Trump 37
psychiatrists and mental-health experts
assess a president doctor notice there
he is
today saying I think Adam Schiff is a
deranged human being he grew up with a
complex for lots of reasons that are
obvious I think he's a very sick man and
he lies what's your reaction to gone
from saying that about Adam Schiff
well you had dr. Representative shift on
earlier and I think he got it exactly
right he said this is a projection
that's exactly what it is
he tells other people that they are what
what he is it's a common enough
mechanism in early childhood and it's
but as an adult using it all the time
it's what we would call primitive it's
if Donald Trump were capable of giving a
reasonable discussion of something he
didn't agree with he would make some
sort of logical case but he's unable to
do that he runs kind of a simple program
in that way so he tells he tells you
that other people are what he is being
accused of and what he actually is so in
that sense doctor does that mean that
his source material for what he is
saying is almost always himself because
that's that's the only source material
he has yes everything is about him as
you pointed out he doesn't have actual
knowledge so he just says what feels
right to him and especially what is for
him what he thinks is in his personal
interest your other guest was pointing
out that he
replacing America with himself and
people who support him support him
rather than the country and I think
that's also exactly right
like many strongmen the Khan that he has
works because he identifies himself with
something that they love
in this case America so as long as they
have the idea that he is America that he
represents America he literally wraps
himself in the flag which he's done then
it doesn't matter that he's associate
past it doesn't matter he has no
conscience it doesn't even matter that
he commits crimes against humanity which
he did when he locked up children in
cages on the border as long as they
think he represents what they love they
will support him I wanna listen
something else don't Trump said today in
London and we're gonna hear him say that
he doesn't he's not going to say this
and then he says it in the next sentence
let's watch this in some ways I like the
idea of waiting till after the election
for the China deal so right in the
middle of all that we hear and say I'm
not gonna say that I just think that and
he's already said it and then he says it
again well again he this is you have to
understand this is a man as I said it
was running really a very simple program
I don't say that as an insult it's just
because it's true he can only do what he
does and he is in a way he's he's
limited by the limited capacity of a
person with early emotional development
he doesn't have much complexity to him
so he says what he thinks and he he you
know it doesn't matter whether it's true
truth means nothing to him and other
people mean nothing to him once you get
that concept that nothing matters that
no conscience no morality and everything
else falls into place and truth means
nothing
in your experience doctor how does a
person end up like this what what are
the development what's the developmental
path to this kind of condition it's very
early almost all people don't have this
problem one of the ironies is that most
of the people who support Donald Trump
would make a far better president than
Donald Trump because they not as ill but
if the the early capacity to have
empathy for other people to identify
them as being worthwhile and caring
about them happens at all human beings
at a very early point he doesn't have
that and that's why he can treat other
people with complete abandon
he had literally abandoned them if
they're for him he loves them they're
against them they're horrible it's as I
say it's it's black and white and very
simple writing in 2017 in the book that
we mentioned the dangerous case of
Donald Trump you said that these
characteristics will only become worse
do you see evidence that that has
happened
absolutely and if they will continue to
be worse if if he didn't have his party
behind him he would have been out of the
office a long time ago because he's so
obviously incompetent but he will be
propped up as long as he is propped up I
think he'll he'll survive but he will
certainly get worse the more he's
challenged dr. Lance noticed thank you
for joining us once again tonight we
always appreciate it thank you very much
er thanks for checking out our YouTube
channel subscribe by clicking on the
button below for more from the last word
and the rest of MSNBC